# Time Machine

## Table of Contents
- [About](#about)
- [Features](#features)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Contribution](#contribution)      
- [Acknowledgements](#acknowledgements) 

## About
 ### Our web site shows simulation of Forest Degradation over years , solutions , and generate awareness among masses. 
Forests around the world are suffering from deforestation, unsustainable practices, and the effects of climate change, leading to significant environmental degradation. Although efforts to raise awareness are ongoing, many people remain disconnected from the long-term consequences of their actions—or lack thereof—on the environment, especially in their local areas. 

Traditional environmental education methods often fail to create personal engagement, which limits people's motivation to take meaningful action. This project seeks to bridge the gap by offering a more interactive, personalized, and impactful approach to environmental education, encouraging individuals to understand the local environmental challenges they face and take immediate steps to make a difference.


## Features

- **Experience Past Habitats**: Users can immerse themselves in recreated habitats from the past, featuring huts, temples, and ancient trees. The environment includes various animal species, such as tigers and deer, alongside dense forests, providing an authentic glimpse into historical ecosystems. Additionally, ponds, rocks, mountains, and clouds have been included to enhance the overall experience, showcasing what life was like in those times.

- **Time Travel Machine**: Users can interact with a distinctive pink circle that serves as a time travel portal. By selecting a specific year, users can click on "Time Travel" to journey back in time and explore different historical periods related to forest habitats and ecosystems.



- **Immersive and Engaging Maps**: Now, we are showing our first map in which users can explore detailed maps of forest areas to visualize deforestation trends, endangered species' habitats. This feature provides a real-time geographic representation of environmental changes, helping users better understand the scope of deforestation.

- **3D Login Interface**: Users can create accounts and securely log in to the app. This allows for personalized experiences. 

- **Interactive Time Travel Interface**: Users can drag or scroll through a timeline to explore key historical periods and events related to forest degradation. 
    Users can explore habitat during past time.

## Installation

First do Git Clone:

```bash
git clone git@github.com:Veerainsood/Time-Machine.git
```
or
```bash
git clone https://github.com/Veerainsood/Time-Machine.git
```

cd to Time-Machine/

To install the dependencies, run:

```bash
npm install
```
To start the development server, run:
```bash
npm run dev
```

## Usage
- **If you are new User** : First create account with Gmail with atleast 6 digit password. Click on fire to experience time travel .
- **Else** : Login with registered gmail and password. Click on fire to experience time travel .


## Contribution

- **Aman Anand**: Initialized the Time Travel Map , added ground and atmosphere + tree models + character model , Added Third person Player + Different Models + Movement of Player + Thrid person controller + Added Ancestral Lodge + woods + Model of Horse and 2nd Quadrant is free Habitation + Peasent 3D Model + General Bug Fixes + Created Readme.
  
- **Veerain Sood**: Added First Person Player Movements + Fixed Ground issues + added random forest generation on the map + Added night Sky + Added Conditional Rendering of Forest + Added Time Machine + improved conditional Rendering + added a forest region + Added Login Page + Optimized Models for quickness + Added Modular Houses + Lakes + Ponds + Fish + Added Horse cart + Added Mandir + Added Colliders + Autogenerated flora + fauna + Added Time Machine Optimized + Added Sliders + Added routes + Added option for Time Travel + Added Mountains + General Bug Fixes + Added Entry Circles for navigation.
  
- **Kalyan Anudeep**: Made Blender Models which we added + Login Page Designs +  General Bug Fixes + Generally Helped in a lot of things.
  
- **Aseem Anand**: Added Enviornment Game + Added Navigation Page + Added Firebase Login +Registration.

- **Yashwanth**: Helped in adding 3d models + General Debugging + Fixed Game.

## Acknowledgements

We would like to extend our heartfelt gratitude to the following individuals 
  
- **Aman Anand**:
  
- **Veerain Sood**: 
  
- **Aseem Anand**: 
  
- **Kalyan Anudeep**: 
  
- **Yashwant**: 


Thank you to everyone.

